---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Studying with Jupyter Notebook
date: 2018-12-05
Categories: Tools
---

I just learned about Jupyter Notebooks, and I thought I might use it as a study/learning tool.

## Initial thoughts

I'm new to Jupyter notebooks, so there's undoubtably a lot it can do that I don't know about. In any case, I thought a good use for me was to use jupyter notebooks to store my study notes. 

I am using Jupyter notebooks to store a couple of things all in one place. Specifically, we can put these three things all in a jupyter notebook. 1) code which you can run within the notebook. 2) code output, which is saved and displayed. 3) notes which can be formatted in nicely formatted markdown.

## Current Progress
I set up 2 notebooks. One for [Python study notes](https://github.com/dannyhan12/Python-Study-Notes) and another for [C++ study notes](https://github.com/dannyhan12/Cpp-Study-Notes). The notebooks are pretty barebones, but I think they show some promise. 

## Confusion
As a newbie everything is confusing, or you don't even realize what you have misunderstood. And after you become a novice or expert it's hard to remember what you found confusing before. For posterity, I thought I'd jot a couple things that I find confusing for now. 

1. I find the concept of `cells` as a whole confusing. How much code should I put in a single cell? Do people typically run a subset of cells, or all of them? 

2. I'm using cling to run C++ code in the notebooks, but I don't really know how cling works. How does variable scope work, and what do I have to `include`? 

## Conclusion
I'm glad to have found my way to jupyter notebooks and I look forward to using it more. I find some things confusing, and buggy (especially with the C++ cling kernel), but I hope it is mostly user error which may eventually become a non-issue.
