---
layout: page
title: Every git repository is unique
date: 2018-10-28
Categories: Personal
---

I've been using git for years, and I think I get how it works for the most part. 

1. You write code. 
2. You commit the changes. 
3. Git keeps the history of your changes. 
4. Voila. You have source change management.

So, I guess I understand how git works as much as I know a car works. 

1. Turn the key.
2. Press the gas to go. 
3. Press the brake to stop.
4. Poof. You're driving. 

One bit of git that is a bit mysterious to me is the commit hash tag. For each commit, there is a cryptic and magical hashcode. Something like:

    d84b37c2e647f682260926f162f2933034a0eef1k
    
The hashcode is similar to an `ID`. For example, if you wanted to diff your current version or code against an old commit, you could run

    git diff d84b37c2e647f682260926f162f2933034a0eef1k

But the commit hash is [a bit more than an id](https://gist.github.com/masak/2415865). One thing I've always wondered was if there were two git repositories with the same exact file changes, and the same exact commits, will they have the same git hash code? According to the docs, for most use cases, the git commit hash values will always be different. 

I wanted to see it for myself, so I ran the following commands:

    mkdir tmp; cd tmp
    git init
    touch README
    git add README
    git commit -m "Just add README"
    git log

Then, I ran it again. And, guess what? The hash tag for the two repositories, which had the same files and same commits, by the same user, were different. 

So, today I learned/confirmed that every git repository is like an unique snowflake.
