layout: page
title: Agile at Home
date: 2018-10-13
Categories: Personal

We've been working as an agile/scrum team at work for a while. It provides a framework for how our team works. I'm not a superfan of agile/scrum, but it has some good points.

I've been doing a modified form of agile/scrum at home for a while. Here are the highlights.

## The team
The "team" at home is just me. This works out well. Communication involves reminding my future self what my past self was up to. So, documentation is key.

## Tools
At work, we use a fancy JIRA board to organize our scrum work. There are cards for each story, stories get assigned, estimated, moved  around ... Work somehow progresses from the Backlog, into TODO, through Review and finally gets Done.  

At home, I just use text files, written in markdown.

### Backlog
First, I have a file called "backlog.md". In this file, I put items to work on and organize them by topic. It looks something like this.

    # Projects - homepage
    ## Add title to every blog post
    ...

    # Studying
    ## Finish Python pluralsight 
    ...

    # Chores
    ## Check on insurance claim
    ...

Whenever I think of something to work on, I'll add a note on my phone, and then when I get to a computer, I'll add it to this backlog file.

### Scrum board
I then have another file called "notes.md". This details what I'm working on this week. 

Every Sunday, at the "end the sprint", I write a summary of how I think the week went at the top of this file. This is my retrospective. Then, I archive it to a folder with a date, ie (notes.YYYYMMDD.md). That ends the sprint. 

For the next sprint, I start a new notes.md file. I move things from the backlog.md file into the notes.md. That's it, the sprint is ON, until next Sunday.

## Conclusion
Like any other sprint team, this is a work in progress, but in general, it works for me. 
