---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Setting up a secure web application
date: 2018-05-30
Categories: Devop
---

### Short summary 
I set up a new web app, available at [programmerdays.com](programmerdays.com). The first thing on the agenda - secure the borders.

### Details on securing my web server and application

I started working on a new web site. It's just a "hello world" app for now, so there isn't much to note about it. The bits that I'm happy about is its security. I've got 1) firewalls, 2) keys and 3) certificates. It only works within the safety of https requests, not http.

I can't say that I understand everything that is going on, but I think I've set things up using best practices, which hopefully protects me just enough.

First, I followed this [tutorial from digital ocean to set up my server and some accounts](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/initial-server-setup-with-ubuntu-16-04). The root account depends on rsa key access instead of passwords. This is safer because it would be much harder to "crack" a rsa key than a password I come up with. Additionally, it's much easier to use the rsa key for logging in to my server - no more typing passwords.

In addition to ssh access, I set up my firewalls to also allow http and https access, but nothing else. I then configured all traffic coming for http access to redirect to the secure https port. So, http access is rendedered secure by forcing traffic through https. Then I used [certbot](https://certbot.eff.org/lets-encrypt/ubuntuxenial-nginx) and [letsencrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) to help me get a Certificate so that https works. This was remarkably easy (and free)!

Finally, I send traffic that comes through the secure https port to port 8000, where my app is running. So, my app is only interacting with requests that have gone through a secure connection.

### Conclusion

It's easy to ignore security. There are a lot of excuses; it's boring, it's too hard, it's unnecessary, it's too expensive. Those excuses may be somewhat true, but I've found that things are easier than before. So, bite the bullet, and lock down your servers.

### Update

Certbot has been working just fine for the last year or so. When the certificate's expiration date is approaching, I get an email saying that I need to renew it. I thought I set up something to renew it automatically, but it's not working quite right. It's nice that certbot actively alarms me that something isn't right.

Initial set up of certbot was easy, but I have had some problems renewing the Certbot certificate while my web application is running in a docker container.  I always have to stop my application completely, get a new renewed certificate and then restart my application.
