---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Making Website Look Nice With Minimal Effort
date: 2018-06-07
Categories: Devop
---

Making a brand new website has been somewhat easier than I expected. There are so many tutorials to learn from and resources to utilize. You can cut-and-paste your way to a functional and site. And it can look good too.

## How is UI development similar to building a secure website?

UI work and building a secure site are similar in that they are both hard to do correctly. Well, they are are hard to do, if you want to do it all from scratch. Since I want to have something that's somewhat presentable and just secure enough, I turned to experts to help me along.

I already wrote about how I [secured my website](setting-up-a-secure-web-application). To do that, I completely relied on the awesome work done by the folks at [letsencrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Using their expertise, I was able to get something up and working without much effort. Moreover, if I had done it all on my own, I'm sure I would have messed up some part of the process, and my site wouldn't be as secure as it is now. Security is hard to get right, so I'm more than happy to lean on the experts.

And I did a similar thing in building the UI for my site. It's hard to build a site that looks good and is consistent across different browsers and devices. In the past, the answer is with careful coding, loads of hacky patches, and days of painstaking fiddling. But these days, similar to getting my website secure, I turned to the experts to help me along. In short, I used [getbootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) to get my barebones html site into one that is presentable. I think the site looks OK now, which is good enough for me.

## Still in progress
I'm still not very happy with everything. I write my artcles in markdown and then convert them to html using a library called [Markdown](https://pypi.org/project/Markdown/). It works OK, but I find the rendering of some things lacking, such as the rendering of tables and code snippets. It is probably my user error. For UI work, things can always use improvement, but I've had enough for now.

## Moral of this story
For the things that are important like a site's UI, but that you might not care a lot about, rely on experts. 
