---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Notes On Docker
date: 2018-08-01
Categories: Devop
---

Docker is a tool that all the cool and professional developers are using these days. I started using it to see what all the hype was about.

# Why use docker

It's meant to normalize your building and running of code.

So, you start off by coding on your local home computer, as usual. Then, when you are ready to deploy to some distant virtual cloud machine, everything works seamlessly. It doesn't matter if your home computer is a Mac or Windows and if the machine on the cloud is running Ubuntu or Redhat. As long as you can install docker, it should just all work.

# Is it really that easy?

Yes and no. The hard part is setting up your `Dockerfile` to build your `image` and run your `container` on your local machine. Then, shipping and deploying your container to some cloud is easy.

This is the opposite of how things used to be. In the past, it was easy to building and running on your local machines, but then it could be incredibly difficult to deploy it, and even more difficult if you had to swap your deployment to another service provider. 

So, it shifts the difficult up front. That's better. As in all things, it's better to find out something is broken earlier than later. When coding, it's great to find an error via a linter or compiler or a unit test, and it's terrible to find errors after you shipped and your client started using the code. 

With docker, you find out if you are missing dependencies as you develop, which reduces the chance of finding a bug when you go "live".

# Not another tool

I heard about docker a while ago, but I wasn't really in a rush to add it to my development stack. It's another thing I have to learn how to use.

Here are some things that all software programmers have to learn how to use on top of writing code. I'll try to describe each one to a non-programmer. 

- There's shell programming. Who needs a GUI when I can do everything from a text-based terminal window ?
- There's vim. An archaic text editor with a steep learning curve. Sounds perfect for me. 
- There's git. It's a way to keep track of how files change based on a hashing algorithm that works with a distributed set of users (did someone say blockchain)?
- There's IDEs and debuggers. These help you run your program very slowly, one line of code at a time. 

And on and on. Now, I'm adding docker to the mix.

Each tool provides some benefit. They fix problems that I had before and others I wasn't even aware. But each one takes some time to learn and implement.

# Experience with docker

## First experience with docker

In about an hour, I was able to get docker installed and running. I was then able to get that container to run gunicorn with a python flask app. I followed a few tutorials. Getting started was pretty easy.

Once I started the container, my laptops fans started spinnning. Docker is thought of as a light weight solution, but it can easily get pretty heavy duty. It's really easy to create lots of images that eat up a lot of disk space as well. My initial attempt used the base image `python:3.6.5`, which came to a hefty 912 MB alone and to a total of 1.1 GB why my python flask layer on top. I switched to `python:3.6.5-alpine`, which brought my disk usage to 89MB and 280MB for the base image and the app respectively.


## Problems / User Errors

### Address and ports

The trouble with isolating your code is that you have to do some work to make sure you can still access it from the outside. One issue I had was that gunicorn used to run my app on localhost which I could access at 127.0.0.1:8000. However, inside the docker container, I had to change it to run 0.0.0.0:8000. I'm still not completely sure why. 

# Future Plans
I plan on setting up another container for other parts of my application and then hook it all together with docker compose. Then, I have to do what docker is meant to do - deploy to cloud.  Let's see if it actually works. 

# Cheat sheet
+ Stop running all containers

    + `docker stop $(docker ps -aq)`

+ Clean up docker resources
    + `docker system prune`

+ Build a docker image
    + `docker build -t imagename .`

+ Check for running containers
    + `docker ps`

+ See your images (some might not even be used)
    + `docker images`

+ Run your container
    + `docker run -p 8000:8000 -it --rm -d myapp`

+ Log into your running container
    + `docker exec -it <containerid> /bin/bash`
    
+ Start and stop containers with docker-compose (if you defined docker-compose.yml)
    + `docker-compose up -d` 
    + `docker-compose stop`

+ See docker-compose logs
    + `docker-compose logs`

