---
layout: page
title: Writing With One Purpose
date: 2019-02-13
Categories: Writing, Tip
---
This article on [documentation from divio](https://www.divio.com/blog/documentation/) impressed me. The takeaway I got from it was that you need to write things with a single purpose.

In code, we call this the single-responsibility principle. Any function or class should have one job. If it tries to do two things, 1) calculate a value *and* 2) save that value to a database, the design is off. You might get away with it today. There is a lot of badly designed code out in the wild that does the job fine, and no one cares. But, there's also a chance that you wrote a function that needs to be re-worked one day.

But I haven't been using my bad code-detector with respect to my writing. I haven't been thinking, "what's the single purpose" of this article? Is it a how-to guide? a tutorial? an entertaining essay?

In writing, the consequence of writing an aimless article is pretty bad as well. It makes for crappier writing that less people would like to read or benefit from. I don't think I spend too much time re-writing an old article, but it's time spent on something that I wouldn't want to add into my portfolio of great things.

Even this article that I'm writing now is a little aimless. Let's put a point on it.

This article is a reminder to myself, and a tip to you, to write things that have a single purpose. Once that's settled, it's just a matter of expressing that purpose simply, elegantly, inteligently, with humor, compassion, and excitement - piece of cake!
