---
layout: page
title: C++ virtual, override, final spelling
date: 2019-03-20
Categories: C++
---

Spelling can seem somewhat arbitrary and difficult. Memorization and experience works for the most part. For less common words, using some sort of rule, "i before e, except after c", may help. And for those spelling-B whiz kids, understanding a word's etymology can help you guess at the correct spelling. 

C++ syntax is similar to spelling. For instance, see the keywords `virtual`, `override` and `final`. These modifiers describe how classes inherit member functions. 

`virtual` says that derived classes can replace the given function with their own version. `override` says that a function is replacing a `virtual` function. And `final` says that a function can not be overriden by any derived classes. Here is a simple example:

```
struct Base {
  // virtual keyword says doNothing can be overriden
  virtual void doNothing() {}
};
struct Derived: public Base { 
  // override says to check that we are replacing a virtual function
  // final says that other derived classes cannot replace this function
  void doNothing() override final {}
};
struct DerivedSomeMore: public Base { 
  // The following line won't compile. doNothing was declared final before!
  void doNothing() override {}
};
```

This all makes sense to me, except for the "spelling". Why is the `virtual` keyword placed before the function name, and the `override` and `final` keywords placed after the function name? For the sake of consistency, I'd think that these similar modifiers would all appear in front of the function or after. 

Things that come before the function name: templates, return types, the static and virtual keywords.

Things that come after the function name: const, override and final.

Maybe there's a good rhyme and reason to this all, but it seems a little bit arbitrary to me. Anyone know why the function declartion is "spelled" this way?
