layout: page
title: Use environment variables in Docker
date: 2019-04-11
Categories: Docker

I have been using docker, on and off, for a couple of months. I wrote [some notes](https://www.programmerdays.com/writing/notes-on-docker) on it several months ago. Those notes were from the perspective of a complete beginner.

And now, I think I've graduated from a "beginner" to a "novice". This is one small level up. As a beginner, to do anything, I needed to closely follow tutorials. There's a lot of cutting, pasting, and hoping. As a novice, there's a little less hand-holding required. I can read the manual and figure stuff out on my own. The foreign jargon becomes a bit more familiar. Of course, there's still a lot of cutting, pasting and hoping.

One of the selling points of Docker was the idea that I'd have something that just works everywhere. I'd package up my whole development environment and deploy the same thing to production. Building the docker container on my laptop or on my production server should be the same thing. So, if I can get it working on my laptop, getting my code to run on some other server should just work.

But, I found myself skipping Docker on my laptop. It just wasn't the same. On my production server, I had nginx redirecting to different ports and using certificates. The production server placed data resource files in locations different than my laptop. It wasn't uniform, so I was missing out on that key benefit - build once, ship anywhere. 

This annoyed me, so, I began tinkering. After breaking my docker files many times, I finally got to a position that seems to work ok. The breakthrough concept was utilizing environment variables. Environment variables allowed me to have more general Docker files. I specified locations of files, switched the ports and swapped the configurations with environment variables. This let me run the same Dockerfile on my laptop as on my production server. 

One gotcha is passing environment variables from docker-compose to a specific docker file. This is how I did it. Define an environment variable in .env, which is read by docker-compose.

    $ cat .env
    MY_VAR=hello

Pass that variable along in docker-compose.yml.

    $ cat docker-compose.yml
    version: '2'
    services:
      mysvc:
        build:
          context:
            ./svc
        args:
          - MY_VAR=$MY_VAR

Use the variable in your docker file.

    $ cat Dockerfile
    ARG MY_VAR
    RUN echo $MY_VAR

Now that I have some Docker files that use environment variables, the final products seem utterly simple. If someone were to look at my final code, they'd miss all of the mistakes I made getting to the current working version. I probably won't remember what it felt like to be a beginner at Docker. It's hard to understand any perspective othan than the one you are currently living in.

There were a lot of mistakes along the way, but that's how I started to crack through my beginner level into the novice realm. 
