layout: page
title: Benefits of Learning Haskell
date: 2019-07-27
Categories: Haskell
After years of being a C++ programmer, I recently started to learn Haskell with the book, ["Get Programming with Haskell"](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1617293768/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1617293768&linkCode=as2&tag=programmerd05-20&linkId=2ca31127ab20794593a9940d88a1a9c6). 

Haskell is a ["functional"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming) programming language while C++ is ["procedural"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Procedural_programming). The difference between these two styles of programming is supposedly vast; that's why I wanted to learn it.  

C++ and Haskell are both fully capable languages. Each of them is ["Turing complete"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_completeness); in other words, anything you can program in one of these languages you can also program in the other. It's similar to regular languages. Anything that can be said in English can basically be said in Italian or Japanese. Of course, some things are more easily expressed in one language over the others. Some phrases are simply more beautiful and elegant in one language over another.

Learning a second language directly opens new possibilities. You could travel to a foreign country and order a meal at a restaurant. Similarly, I could open a project in [Haskell on Github](https://github.com/trending/haskell?since=monthly) and contribute a patch. But another hope are the indirect benefits. By learning a foreign language, I could improve my communication/programming skills in my primary language. My guess and hope is that learning Haskell could help me be a better programmer via a few different routes.

## Learning Haskell could help me understand computers better.
It's easy to forget that the programming language you are working in is not the computer itself. It's an abstraction layer. You tell the language to do one thing, a compiler or interpreter does some translation, and some lower level processor executes it, with a lot of steps in between.

There's a lot that must happen for a computer to do what you tell it do. Bugs are often caused when you tell a programming language to do one thing, but it does something else. 

In C, the abstraction layer is meant to be minimal. So learning C is a good language to help you learn about computers in general. The abstraction is so thin, you can almost see the computer grinding away. In contrast, some higher level languages create large abstractions that the underlying processing seems like magic.

What sort of lessons will Haskell or functional programming teach me about computers in general? What does Haskell try to abstract away? I'm excited to find out.

## You learn new languages to realize new possibilities. 
Every programming language defines a set of rules. If you write code that follows these syntax rules, then you get some result.

These rules are necessary, but limiting. 

I'm not concerned as much about the syntax or vocabulary of a new language. Rather, there are operations and idioms in a language that simply aren't performed in another. For Haskell, I think I've already uncovered one instance. 

Haskell accepts the premise of infinite lists as a normal thing people would like to work with. In C or C++ an array or vector always has a defined size. It can grow or shrink, but it always has a current limited size. Meanwhile, Haskell allows you to create infinite lists much more naturally. 

I am sure there are many more things that you can do much more easily in one language or the other. Realizing these differences will help me push the boundaries in whatever language that I am programming in.

## You refine your code smell sensitivity.
Finally, I think it will help refine my sense of code smelling. Code smelling is a sixth sense skill that developers build over time. As you read and write more and more code, you get a sense of things that could be trouble. It's not simply a check list of dos and don'ts. It's an intuition that you acquire over time.

Writing in different languages will help you refine and improve your code smell abilities. 

For example, in functional programming, there is an emphasis on having no side effects. A function takes some arguments and returns a value. It shouldn't cause something else unexpected. As I practice writing in Haskell more, this concept will become second nature to me. And when I return to writing C code, and I will sub-conciously think about functions with side effects differently. I'd think, wouldn't it be nicer not to have a side effect? How could I rewrite things so that functions just do one thing>

## Conclusion
Just like a French Pastry chef learning about Chinese cuisine or a wrestler training as a ballet dancer, the benefits of an object orient programmer learning a functional programming should be many, unexpected and humerous.
