---
layout: page
title: Tips for dealing with less time
date: 2019-05-17
Categories: How-to, Tips
---
Recently, I had the great fortune of having a new baby girl. Since she arrived, my days have been filled with baby feeding, holding, and cleaning. Restful nights are no more. Attention is split. It's exhausting, yet incredibly rewarding.

Needless to say, I have a lot less free time. In an oxymoronic way, I have been gaining more experience with having less time. If you are also dealing with a situation where your free time will be dramatically reduced, here are some tips on making the most of your diminished time. 

## Context switching
Babies require a lot of attention, but they also spend a lot of time sleeping, staring off into space, and doing other things that don't require you to do anything. The problem is that you never know when your baby suddenly demands your full and immediate attention. Whenever things seemed to settle down, and I wanted to sit down and work on some project, I'd get distracted by the baby in need of something.

In short, **context switching is a major obstacle** to productive work. Whenever I wanted to work on something, the baby would grab my attention. I'd have to stop and hope to restart later. Each stop and start increases the time it takes to finish things. 

The best way to reduce the impact of context switching is to avoid it. If you have someone to help you, you might want to say something like, "Hey, I need an hour to focus on something. Can you cover me?". Alternatively, shifting my sleep schedule to wake up very early also provided some quiet time that I could devote to a single task.

Another tip is to leave yourself breadcrumbs. Pretend that your future self is someone else who will pick up on the work your past self has been working on. Your future self may not remember what your past self was doing. So make it easier on your future self by leaving some note-to-self comments.

The last way to deal with context switches is to make very short goals for yourself. It may be impossible to get a whole day to work on one thing, so set a goal that is achievable in 1 hour or 10 minutes. Even if your context is forcibly switched in 15 minutes, you could still accomplish something. More on goals next ...

## Goals
I'm a big fan of setting achievable goals. There's an idiom that says "Reach for the moon, even if you miss, you will be among the stars". This suggests that you should set lofty goals. But I've found that setting your sights too high can lead to complete failures - rather than reaching the moon or the stars, you never get off of the launchpad.

Instead, I'm in favor of setting achievable short term goals. If you find that your goals are too trivial, then you calibrate your next set of goals to match what is achievable. It's OK to over-reach as well, as long as you fail fast and recalibrate soon.  

For example, say you have a general desire to read more. If you set a goal of reading 20 books this year, once you start falling behind, the goal may seem impossible to achieve. After a while, you just give up on that goal.

Instead, you could make your initial goal to read a single page of a book every day for this week. At week's end, you might decide to set a harder goal of reading one chapter of a book each day for the next week. Eventually, you can see what you can realistically achieve and set your goals accordingly. 

With a new baby, my free time has been shortened, and I've had to assess what I can reasonably accomplish. This adjustment helps me to complete my goals more often and prevents me from getting down on myself. 

**Setting and accomplishing goals is good for your morale.**

## Expectations
I was fortunate enough to have some time off for paternity leave. My hopeful, optomistic self thought, "This is great. I'll have dedicated time for the family. I should definitely have time to read this book, and work on that project, and take a coursera class, and ...". 

But as the days passed, and I didn't accomplish what I hoped and expected to complete, I got down on myself.

I needed to adjust my expectations. I can't expect to do as much as I used to do when I had a lot less time. Instead, I have to expect more distractions and lower output. In response, I need to devise plans to be more productive with the time I have. Who knows, maybe I become more efficient and I become more productive. But that should be a pleasant surprise rather than an unrealistic expectation.
