---
layout: page
title: How to use a Headless Raspberry Pi
date: 2019-01-19
Categories: Story, How-to, Mac, Raspberry Pi
---

The Raspberry Pi is a complete computer. I connected it to an HDMI display, plugged in a mouse and keyboard, found my home Wifi, and it all just worked out of the box. After confirming it all worked, I wanted to unplug everything, and work with it in a 'headless' state. 

First, I set up ssh, using this [tutorial](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruits-raspberry-pi-lesson-6-using-ssh/enabling-ssh). On your pi, enter 

    sudo raspi-config

to enable ssh. And then I found its ip address with this command:

    ifconfig

Knowing the ip address, I connected to it from my home computer like so

    ssh 192.168.1.2 -l pi 
    with password = raspberry

By the way, you really should change this password and even the user name, but that's a topic for another discussion.

## Connect to a static ip address
Now that you confirmed you can connect to your pi, you probably want to set its ip address to a static one so that you know you are always connecting to the correct device. To do this, first get the ip address of your router, with this command:

    route -n

which returns data like this:

    Kernel IP routing table
    Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
    0.0.0.0         192.168.1.1     0.0.0.0         UG    303    0        0 wlan0
    192.168.1.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.255.0   U     303    0        0 wlan0

The address you want to note is under Gateway, which for me, was `192.168.1.1`. Then, following [this guide](https://www.modmypi.com/blog/how-to-give-your-raspberry-pi-a-static-ip-address-update), you need to append to add the following lines to the file /etc/dhcpcd.conf:

    # set up static ip address for wireless connection
    interface wlan0
    static ip_address=192.168.1.200/24
    static routers=192.168.1.1
    static domain_name_servers=192.168.1.1

For the `static ip_address`, use the address of the Gateway we noted just before, but change the last number to a big number that is less than 255. This will help you avoid collisions. Then set the `static routers` and `static domain_name_servers` to the same address of the Gateway we noted above. You should now be able to ssh into your raspberry pi with the new ip address, `ssh 192.168.1.200`.

## File and screen sharing
ssh connection gives me all the access I really need, but I continued with this [tutorial](http://4dc5.com/2012/06/12/setting-up-vnc-on-raspberry-pi-for-mac-access/) to let me do file and screen sharing. This required installing some software (netatalk, avahi-daemon, tightvncserver) on my pi and then setting up some configuration files. It all worked without too much trouble.

## Wrapping up
So now, all I have to do is plugin in my raspberry pi's power cord, wait a few moments, and remote connect to it from my regular computer. Very cool. 

Finally, when you are done working with your 'headless' pi, you can shut it down with this command.

    sudo shutdown -h now
