---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Naming Things New and Old
date: 2019-02-23
categories: Programming
---

I have a coding tip for you. Avoid naming things with the words "old" or "new". 

Libraries such as `new_database_adapter` or variables like `skip_old_items = true` are poorly named. The meaning of these names require the reader to have some context. They need to know when the code was written so that they can infer what constitues as `new` or `old`. This is asking too much of the reader.

Really, any term that is relative makes for an ambiguous name. Changing `new_database_adapter` to `fast_database_adapter` isn't much of an improvement. It's still asking the code reader to be aware about existing database adapters that may be slower. I also wouldn't believe that a `fast_database_adapter` is actually fast just because it's named that way. House said, "All People Lie", to which I add, "lots of code misleads". 

So, what's a better name? I'd try to think of something a little more specific. Choose one feature of the `new` library and name it after that. For example: `read_only_database_adapter` or `async_database_adapter`. These names tell the reader the purpose of the library. They also give the reader context rather than expecting them to know it beforehand. With just these library names, the reader would be reasonable in guessing that there is a "read_write_database_adapter" and a "synchronous_database_adapter". And if they're lucky, maybe those other libraries actually exist!

Using the word "new" or "old" when you name things is lazy. Instead of telling the reader what your variable is for, you are saying, "trust me, this is different from something else, but I don't have the energy to tell you how it's different." 

So, that's the tip. Don't use the words "new" or "old" when you name things. 
