---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Notes on the static keyword in C++
date: 2019-01-09
Categories: C++
---
# `static` keyword in C++
Here are notes on the keyword `static` in C++.

In C++, the most confounding keyword may be `static`. It can take on different meanings depending on where it's used. It is a modifier that can alter the lifetime or accessibility of either variables or functions.

You should [read the manual](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/keyword/static) for the nitty gritty details on `static`. At first glance, the `static` keyword seems overused and inconsistent. But rather than just complain about its usage, here's my best attempt on what you should think when you see this keyword.

## tl/dr summary
Whenever you see the word `static`, think "inert" or "unchanging". This covers most use cases, sorta. 

## Use cases

1. If it's used to modify a variable in a function, it modifies the variable's lifetime. Instead of destroying the variable when the function returns, it remains alive. For example:
    ``` 
    void useStatic() {
        static int myStaticVar = 1; // declared once as "1"
        std::cout << myStaticVar++ << std::endl;
    }
    useStatic(); // prints out 1
    useStatic(); // prints out 2
    useStatic(); // prints out 3
    ``` 
    So when you see `static` used like this, think -  this variable will remain unchanged even after the function exists.

2. If it's used within a class, it changes the variable or function from a member variable/function into one a class variable/function.
    ```
    class MyClass {
    public:
        static void doSomething();
    };
    MyClass c;
    MyClass d;
    MyClass::doSomething(); // calling function of class, not of any 1 instance.
    ```
    So, when you see `static` used like this, think - this variable/function is the same (unchanged) across all instances of the class. 

3. Finally, when its modifying a regular function (not a class member function) or a variable (not in a function), it means, this entitty is only accessible in this translation unit. This is the usage that really doesn't fit the english meaning of "static" at all. At one point, this usage was even going to be deprecated from C++, since it's replaced by unnamed namespaces. It only remains to stay compatible with C.   

    When you see `static` used like this, think - maybe I should change it to use an unnamed namespace so that I reduce any confusion about this "static" keyword.

## Conclusion

The `static` keyword could've/should've been multiple keywords. It's something we have to accept. This article was an attempt to give a little intuition for when you see `static` in code. Is there a better way to "read" the `static` keyword?
