---
layout: post
title: Photo Backup Overview
date: 2020-11-29
categories: [HOME]
comments: true
---

I set up a process for backing up all of my family's photos. After a photo is taken on my phone, it is automatically backed up onto a couple of USB drives. Actually, there are some still some manual steps. Here's some notes on what it looks like now.

## Step 0 - Take photos on our phones

My wife and I both have iPhones. We take photos and videos. This system should work if we were to switch to new iPhones or cross over to Android.

## Step 1 - Set up Nextcloud server

I set up a raspberry pi to run [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/). It is a do-it-all platform that you run locally, ie no connection to the internet world is needed. For now, we have a minimal setup. After the initial install, I made two changes: 

1. I created accounts for me and for my wife. 
2. I set it up to write files to an external usb drive that is directly connected to my pi.

## Step 2 - Nextcloud app uploads photos

I installed the [Nextcloud app](https://nextcloud.com/install/) on both of our phones, and set the app to "Auto-upload" all photos and videos to a server. This sort of works. When you open the Nextcloud app, it will look through your Camera Roll and upload new photos and videos to Nextcloud. So, you just open the app, and it figures out what to do. 

If you want it to be more automatic, you have to allow the app to use GPS all of the time. I opted against it because of the potential resource drain. I'm on the lookout for a fix that will make this more automated.

## Step 3 - Copy files to a second usb drive

I set up a cron job that periodically copies any new files that Nextcloud saves onto a second USB drive. The second usb drive is also directly connected to the pi. However, I made the second drive as an NFS (network file system), so it is viewable in our local area network. 

## Step 4 - Mount NFS drive on computers

I updated my computer and my wife's computer to automatically mount the NFS drive. Now, whenever my wife takes a picture on her phone, the photo will eventually appear on a drive that she can see on her computer. And anything I take on my phone also appears on both of our computers too!

To recap, here is the flow of data:

1. Take a picture on phone
2. Nextcloud app on phone uploads picture
3. Nextcloud server on raspberry pi saves to first USB drive
4. cron job copies files from first USB drive to a second NFS drive
5. Computers mount the second USB drive for ease of viewing

## Step 5 - Manual sync

I have one more storage drive that is completely separate from this set up. I periodically connect it to my laptop and manual rsync files onto it. I guess I could automate this part as well, but I keep it in a separate physical space from my raspberry pi and other disk drives.

## Other - cloud backup

Along with all of the above, we use Google Photos and Apple cloud sync. Maybe I'm paranoid above data backup.

## Future steps - cloud backup
I'm thinking of making that second usb drive a little more robust by setting it up as a RAID array of drives. This wouldn't affect the way we interact with the system, but it would be more robust against failures. 

The last parting word is that this was a bit of a pain to get right. I'm glad I have the set up now, and it was interesting to learn about all of the pieces. Nonetheless, it was a chore.  