---
layout: post
title: New Manager With a Growing Team
date: 2020-08-22
categories: [Mangement]
comments: true
---

This is my first year as a Team Lead/Manager for a software development team. 

In the beginning, it wasn't really management. I took over a project, and I was the only one writing code for it. I was managing myself. Development was as good as it could be for one person. During this time, I was learning to manage my time better, but I wasn't practicing any other management skills.

A couple of months later, we hired someone. I was now managing a 2 person team. In that small team, I was still writing a lot of code. But I was also spending a lot of time thinking about my new team member. How could I help her to feel comfortable? How could I ensure that she is meeting her personal goals while our team is meeting deadlines? I got good feedback from my new team member and my management, so things were going OK.

In the last week, our department went through a major reorganization. Suddenly, I was given a lot more resources. My team grew and I'm now managing 6 other people. I know it doesn't sound like a lot, but it's a big jump up for me. Within that team, our coverage of products tripled.

It's an amazing opportunity. I can get to know a lot more people. I can learn about new technologies. I can help bring together a few different products that can have a bigger impact than I ever imagined with my previous team. I'm super thankful for the opportunity.

And yet, I'm a bit scared. We are taking ownership of a couple new tech stacks that are completely new for me. I fear that I'll have a hard time giving good advice on something I know so little about. I'm afraid the new team members will see me fumbling with the new technologies and they won't respect me. I will need to rely on my team members to give me information and deliver products. I can no longer stay up late and "Code my way out of the problem". Really relying on others is hard for me.

It's exciting and it's unsettling and it's uncertain. It's my current status as a relatively new manager. I wanted to log the things I'm feeling at the moment. I wonder how much things will change in coming days, weeks and months. Hoping for the best.