---
layout: post
title: Reading in 2020
date: 2020-12-31
categories: [Reading]
comments: true
---

As 2020 came to an end, I got into reading. This post is just a list of books I recently finished.

Story of Your Life is a collection of short science fiction stories. I found most of the stories beautifully written, easy to read, and thought-provoking. In particular, I really enjoyed the stories "Tower of Babylon" and "Story of your life". I shamefully admit that I couldn't get into a couple of the stories; this reflects more poorly on me than on the stories. I bet if I re-read them, I may enjoy them more. Overall, the writing was humbling. I am amazed that someone could write so beautifully and have such interesting ideas.

Masters of Doom is a non-fiction account surrounding the programmers behind the video games Doom and Quake. One programmer remains focused on being a great programmer who solves many of the low-level graphics challenges in game design. Another programmer is a full stack programmer who designs games that utilize the low-level graphics engines. I'm a programmer and it caused me to reflect on my career. What would I like to focus on? What kind of programmer do I want to be? 

Motherless Brooklyn is a who-dun-it novel. It's an easy, enjoyable vacation read. It's about a guy with Tourettes who's trying to solve a mystery. I don't want to say anything else about it or else I might give away any spoilers. It was the last book I read in 2020; it was fun way to finish the year.

Reading is something I slacked on for a while. I'm glad I've gotten back into it. I hope to do more of it in 2021. 